---
title: "<em>West Side Story</em> Thoughts"
tags: movie
---

I recently finished watching the *West Side Story* movie. It was long! About 2 and a half hours!

I don't know if this was intentional or not, but I kinda hated every character. They were all naive to the point of stupidity, and I didn't really feel anything when they received the consequences for their actions. Perhaps I'm a psychopath who is cynical from a lack of love. Did Tony and Maria love each other, or was it just sexual attraction? Even Anita pointed out that Maria literally knew nothing about Tony, but this point was shrugged off by the two after a musical interlude. Also, I didn't really care when Bernardo and Riff were iced, maybe because their characters were shallow and exaggerated to the point of absurdity.

I think the film was implicitly about the intersection of homosexuality and toxic masculinity. But since it was the 60s, they couldn't explicitly explore those themes. Maybe I am overanalyzing it. The 60s *were* a crazy time.

Also, I thought the white-washing was wack. I remember looking at Maria and thinking, "Damn, I'm pretty sure that chick is white. There is no way Hollywood was progressive enough in the 60s to show interracial relationships." I was right, and it turns out even Bernardo wasn't Puerto Rican, but Greek! I think I read somewhere they put makeup on white actors to pretend they're Puerto Rican. Hopefully these stupid casting practices remain in the past. It is incredibly hypocritical to have a message that love transcends boundaries and then reinforce those very same boundaries in your production.

---

Overall, I would rate it **slightly worse** than *La La Land*.
