---
title: A Tale of Two Blogs
tags: info
---

As you might be able to tell, I managed to get two blogs working on my site: modern, and classic.

I just wanted to document how I got it working, since the other guides out there are kinda poor.

Some objectives I had when starting this project was that I wanted to only have to have **one** post file, and have a distinct subdirectory with distinct pages. I wanted a post `test.md` to be seen at `myblog.com/modern/test` as well as `myblog.com/classic/test` with modern and classic having different HTML and CSS. Also, I wanted it to work on Github Pages, so no 3rd party plugins allowed.

Basically, it works by using (and abusing) `_config.yml` defaults. Since we can assign different subdirectories different layouts, we can make our different blog pages. `_config.yml` should look something like

```
defaults:
    -
        scope:
            path: "classic"
        values:
            category: "classic"
            collection_url: /classic/
            layout: "base"
    -
        scope:
            path: "modern"
        values:
            category: "modern"
            collection_url: /modern/
            layout: "modernbase"

exclude: [/vendor/, /all/]

plugins:
    - jekyll-relative-links

relative_links:
  enabled: true
  collections: true
```

Note the exclude, plugins and relative links. I'll explain those later.

Now we can assign each folder a different layout, but how do we share content between the folders? Symbolic links! For example, let's make a folder `all` so that we have

```
base
|---_config.yml
|---404.html
|---index.md
|---all
    |---_posts
        |---A.md
        |---B.md
        |---test.md
    |---index.md
|---_layouts
    |---base.html
    |---modernbase.html
```

`index.md` will be like the homepage of your blog, allowing the visitor to choose which blog to enter, either modern or classic.

Since we don't want `/all/` to appear as a blog, we excluded it in `_config.yml` earlier. We also exclude `/vendor/` because Jekyll is programmed by 5th graders during PE class.

We need to create a symbolic link *relative* to `base` in order to play well with git. If you make a symbolic link relative to your home folder or whatever, the entire thing breaks down.

```
cd base
ln -s all classic
ln -s all modern
```

The layout should look like

```
base
|---_config.yml
|---404.html
|---index.md
|---all
    |---_posts
        |---A.md
        |---B.md
        |---test.md
    |---index.md
|---classic
|---modern
```

Something to note is that with this setup Jekyll's `post_url` function is completely broken, since it doesn't know which blog's post to use. When you use it in the classic blog, it might redirect you to the modern blog and vice versa. To bypass this problem, we have to use the relative links plugin. For example, if you have a post `A` and you want to link to post `B`

```
_posts
|---A.md
|---B.md
|---test.md
```

You would have to write in `A.md`

```
[Link](B.md)
```

NOTE: When running this on Jekyll, it'll give you an error like `** ERROR: directory is already being watched! **`. You can ignore it. The site will work just fine.